# The postmaster address(es)

The postmaster addresses receive any mail generated by postfix itself (such as
error messages) and is also where other mail administrators expect to be able
to contact us.

Also, Dovecot sends bounces from a postmaster address.  See Dovecot's
`postmaster_address` setting.

* RFC 5321 requires us to accept mail for
    * the literal `postmaster` address (without domain),
    * the `postmaster@DOMAIN` address for each domain `DOMAIN` "for which the
      SMTP server provides mail service".
        * We shall consider as such all domains which are not rejected on their
          own.
            * Compare
                * 554 "Relay access denied" with
                    * Note: The 554 here is not to be confused with that 554
                      mentioned in the here-relevant section of the RFC.
                * 550 "Recipient address rejected: User unknown".
            * These include `$inet_interfaces` and `$proxy_interfaces`.
* In each case, `postmaster` is case-insensitive.
    * Postfix's maps are generally [by default] case-insensitive.


## Goal

* All postmaster addresses are aliased to a fixed set of addresses
  (Ansible: `mail_postmaster_alias_targets`).
    * We allow these to be external.
    * We also allow users logged in using such an address to send with any
      postmaster address.
        * This naturally only works for non-external addresses.
        * We exclude the literal `postmaster` address here, which is not a
          proper address.
* We may be tempted to just alias `postmaster@*`, but this would naturally
  also match external domains.


## Configuration

* [Static aliases](/doc/mail/postfix/aliases/static.md).
* [Database aliases](/doc/mail/postfix/aliases/database.md).
